Add How to guide for migrating to filestream input (#30972)
elastic/beats: filebeat/docs/howto/migrate-to-filestream.asciidoc

[[migrate-to-filestream]]

> == Migrate log input configurations to filestream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Migrate `log` input configurations to `filestream`
```

Reviewer: In most of the docs, we use backticks to format input names (this helps map the description to the keywords used in the config) so I'm doing that here for consistency.

> Filestream input is generally available since 7.14. So it is high time you
> migrate your existing log input configurations.  It comes with many
> improvements over the old input like configurable order for parsers and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `filestream` input has been generally available since 7.14. So it is high time you
migrate your existing `log` input configurations.  The `filestream` input comes with many
improvements over the old input, such as configurable order for parsers and more.
```

> While we do not plan to remove the log input from Filebeat, we are not fixing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we do not plan to remove the `log` input from Filebeat, we are not fixing
```

> new issues or adding any enhancements to the input. Our focus is on filestream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new issues or adding any enhancements to the input. Our focus is on `filestream`.
```

> In this guide, we are leading you through the migration of an existing log input configuration.
> Let's say you are collecting the list of files above with the following three log inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you learn how to migrate an existing `log` input configuration.
The following example shows three `log` inputs:
```

[source,yaml]
----
filebeat.inputs:
 - type: log
   enabled: true
   paths:
     - /var/log/java-exceptions*.log
   multiline:
    pattern: '^\['
    negate: true
    match: after
  close_removed: true
  close_renamed: true

- type: log
  enabled: true
  paths:
    - /var/log/my-application*.json
  scan_frequency: 1m
  json.keys_under_root: true

- type: log
  enabled: true
  paths:
    - /var/log/my-old-files*.log
  tail_files: true
----

> The list of the collected files and the progress of data collection with the log input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, let's assume that the `log` input is used to collect logs from the following files. The progress of data collection is shown for each file.
```

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
/var/log/java-exceptions1.log (100%)
/var/log/java-exceptions2.log (100%)
/var/log/java-exceptions3.log (75%)
/var/log/java-exceptions4.log (0%)
/var/log/java-exceptions5.log (0%)
/var/log/my-application1.json (100%)
/var/log/my-application2.json (5%)
/var/log/my-application3.json (0%)
/var/log/my-old-files1.json (0%)
----

> === 1. Set an identifier for each filestream input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Step 1: Set an identifier for each `filestream` input
```

> All filestream inputs require an ID. So make sure you set a unique identifier for every input. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All `filestream` inputs require an ID. So make sure you set a unique identifier for every input. 
```

> Warning: Never change the ID of an input otherwise you will end up with duplicate events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Never change the ID of an input, or you will end up with duplicate events.
```

Reviewer: Warning is reserved for more serious situations (like data loss)

[source,yaml]
----
filebeat.inputs:
- type: filestream
  enabled: true
  id: my-java-collector
  paths:
    - /var/log/java-exceptions*.log

- type: filestream
  enabled: true
  id: my-application-input
  paths:
    - /var/log/my-application*.json

- type: filestream
  enabled: true
  id: my-old-files
  paths:
    - /var/log/my-old-files*.log
----

> === 2. Exclude all processed files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Step 2: Exclude all processed files
```

> Filebeat does not provide access to the state information of different inputs.
> Hence, filestream cannot access the state information of a log input in the
> registry of Filebeat. You have to exclude the files the log input has processed
> or is processing. If you do not exclude those files, you will end up with
> duplicate events in the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filebeat does not provide access to the state information of different inputs.
Hence, the `filestream` input cannot access the state information of a `log` input in the
Filebeat registry. You must exclude the files the `log` input has processed
or is processing. If you do not exclude those files, you will end up with
duplicate events in the output.
```

> Given the file list above with their ingestion progress, you
> should run log input and filestream input simultaneously until everything
> collected by the log input has made it to the output.
> Once the files collected by the log input are shipped, you can delete log
> inputs and the exlude_files settings from filestream input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the file list and ingestion progress shown earlier, 
you should run the `log` and `filestream` inputs simultaneously until everything
collected by the `log` input has made it to the output.
After the files collected by the `log` input are shipped, you can delete the `log`
inputs and the `exlude_files` settings from `filestream` input.
```

Reviewer: I wonder if this is the right place to mention this? It makes it sound like the users should run Filebeat right now, but I think you want them to wait until the configuration is complete, no? It might be worth moving this to a fourth section. Something like, Step 4: Run Filebeat with `log` and `filestream` inputs enabled

> inputs and the `exlude_files` settings from `filestream` input.

Author: I have reworded the sentence to include that the files collected by the `log` input must be deleted.

[source,yaml]
----
filebeat.inputs:
 - type: log
   enabled: true
   paths:
     - /var/log/java-exceptions*.log
   multiline:
    pattern: '^\['
    negate: true
    match: after
  close_removed: true
  close_renamed: true
  exclude_files: java-exceptions.[4-5].log

- type: log
  enabled: true
  paths:
    - /var/log/my-application*.json
  scan_frequency: 1m
  json.keys_under_root: true
  exclude_files: my-application3.log

- type: filestream
  enabled: true
  id: my-java-collector
  paths:
    - /var/log/java-exceptions*.log
  prospector.scanner.exclude_files: java-exceptions.[1-3].log

- type: filestream
  enabled: true
  id: my-application-input
  paths:
    - /var/log/my-application*.json
  prospector.scanner.exclude_files: my-application.[1-2].log

- type: filestream
  enabled: true
  id: my-old-files
  paths:
    - /var/log/my-old-files*.log
----

> === 3. Use new option names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Step 3: Use new option names
```

> Several options are renamed in filestream. You can find a table with all of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several options are renamed in `filestream`. You can find a table with all of the
```

changed configuration names at the end of this guide.

> The most significant change you have to know about is in parsers. The configuration of
> multiline, json and other parsers has changed. Now the ordering is
> configurable, so filestream expects a list of parsers. Furthermore, the json
> parser was renamed to ndjson.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most significant change you have to know about is in parsers. The configuration of
`multiline`, `json`, and other parsers has changed. Now the ordering is
configurable, so `filestream` expects a list of parsers. Furthermore, the `json`
parser was renamed to `ndjson`.
```

> The example configuration we presented has to be adjusted as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example configuration shown earlier needs to be adjusted as well:
```
